so hey guys here is a update video of a
recent purchase I have made for my fat
bike so right now I have a surly moon
lander I'm running still the stock tires
that came on it so certainly but four
point eight in the back and certainly
Lou
four point eight in the back there very
impressive tires off-road incredible
amounts of grip in the snow downsides
they're a very slow rolling noisy tread
and since we're gonna be using my bike
to do a lot of commuting back and forth
to work so gonna be dealing with
probably lots of icy conditions icy ruts
I wanted to go the studded route as well
as I'm gonna do road riding essentially
in the winter time I'm going to take
this bike and I'm gonna go out for a
three hour road ride so I'm going to be
dealing with icy roads out in the
country and I just wanted to get some
tires that allow me to do that safely so
I just purchased these last week so
these are the 45 North
Dillinger fives so these are the the
five inch or 4.8 inch version of this
tire
they have 258 studs
it is a tread that's designed supposedly
with some reduced rolling resistance in
mind
unlike the the but in the loo so
hopefully it does roll a little faster
than then the but in the loo even though
they are studded they are they are the
beautiful concave studs so they got the
little hole in the middle to provide
extra bite which is good and bad because
I think yeah you're gonna have
exceptional bite on ice and super hard
packed snow with that but I think it
will make them less durable when you do
get on pavement and possibly hit rocks
with them when you do do some
off-roading but apparently these studs
are replaceable you can pull them out
and put new ones in but they're really
pricey I'm sure they're probably I don't
know probably like four or five bucks
each if not more to try and get your
hands on them
yeah these things weren't investments I
don't know if anybody else has been
looking at these tires but they cost a
small fortune
basically to purchase these two tires I
could have bought a complete set of
brand-name winter tires for my car for
what I paid for these two tires so
they're incredibly overpriced but they
are hard to get your hands on especially
in Canada because there's a limited
supply of them so when I found my dealer
had them I scooped them up right away so
right now because they're so expensive
and because I'm worried about the
durability of these studs in terms of
writing them on pavement and such it'll
hold off putting them we don't we've
only got a dusting of snow here but it's
been below freezing now for I think
since last Tuesday it hasn't been above
freezing anymore so the grounds already
starting to freeze or more or less
frozen but we just need some dumps of
snow done some riding on it actually on
this past week I had a really good week
of training I did a little over 14 hours
296 kilometers and five days of riding
and that was all on this fat bike so a
very good week of training my fitness
that I had you know three weeks of seven
meters three months of semi serious
training I have a good high level of
fitness now I've cut back on the
intensity I'm gonna keep my volume high
because I want to make a full frontal
assault on Strava next year in my city
here to be one of the faster guys and to
do that I'm gonna have to train like a
bike racer so I want to keep my volume
high to get my body used to doing you
know a high high workload and I know
search for some people 14 hours isn't a
lot but I mean I work full time job
social life etc so 14 hours it's kind of
my mental limit I mean I think I
physically can do more but 14 hours is
my mental limit and I think it's enough
to be one of the quicker guys here in
town for doing Road Strava segments for
next
here so update video on Dillinger 500
the other thing is I did weigh them
because people are always curious about
the weights I work in a medical
microbiology lab so we have a very
accurate scale that gets calibrated
pretty much every year so what were they
there are 1,400 one of them was 1451
grams and one of them was 1,000 454
grams so there's only a three gram
difference between the tires which is
pretty impressive that's good good
quality control on 45 North's part I
might even post it I took photos of it
when they were on the scale so I might
even post photos here
okay so those
the two-tire weights because some people
are pretty anal about knowing that kind
of information
so yeah awesome 45 North Tillinger five
studs I'm gonna be able to ride all
winter in the worst conditions without a
care in the world I'll be safe the only
thing I have to worry about is the other
car drivers out there so yeah thanks for
watching bye